How to handle security advisories (#3278)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/infrastructure_and_maintenance/security/security_advisories.md

---
description: Find [[= product_name_base =]] security advisories, and learn how to handle Composer package security advisories.
---

# Security advisories

## [[= product_name_base =]] security advisories

> [[= product_name_base =]] security advisories are released via [your Service portal](https://support.ibexa.co/), or via [Security advisories](https://developers.ibexa.co/security-advisories) if you're not a subscriber.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[= product_name_base =]] security advisories are released via [your Service portal](https://support.ibexa.co/), and via [Security advisories](https://developers.ibexa.co/security-advisories). The latter is available to non-subscribers.
```
They are released both places, regardless if you're a subscriber or not :) Trying to clarify this. Feel free to replace with something better.

## Package security advisories

Overall, it's recommended to keep your Composer packages up to date.

You can run the following command to check for available updates without installing them:

```bash
composer update --dry-run
```

When a security issue is discovered on a Composer package, a security advisory is emitted, and the disrecommended affected versions of the package can't be installed without action.

When installing or updating, Composer avoids the installation of packages that are affected by security advisories.
But there might be some constraint issues making the installation or update impossible.

> For example, security fixes might not be deployed for [unsupported PHP versions](https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, security fixes might not be available for [unsupported PHP versions](https://www.php.net/supported-versions.php).
```

Author: Done in 188b48aa2e078f26de341c84857e79f29a73c4c5

Example of a Composer output about a package with security issues when trying to install:

```text

> - Root composer.json requires twig/cssinliner-extra v3.11.0 (exact version match), found twig/cssinliner-extra[v3.11.0] but these were not loaded, because they are affected by security advisories ("PKSA-fs5b-x5k4-1h39").

Reviewer 2: Nitpick category: can you split this message into multiple lines, so that you can see the whole message on the screen? This will make things easier to read.

Applies to all Composer outputs in this article.

<img width="1064" height="363" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a1025bc6-a7a7-4c29-af0d-953739d34217" />

Author: ```suggestion
- Root composer.json requires twig/cssinliner-extra v3.11.0 (exact version match),
  found twig/cssinliner-extra[v3.11.0] but these were not loaded, because they are
  affected by security advisories ("PKSA-fs5b-x5k4-1h39").
```

```

> Composer's output isn't always this verbose about security advisories blocking installation or updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Composer's output doesn't always mention that a security advisory is blocking installation or updates.
```
To avoid a vague "isn't verbose"

> For example, imagine this error appeared recently when trying to install [[= product_name =]] 4.6 on PHP 7.4:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, when trying to install [[= product_name =]] 4.6 on PHP 7.4 you might see an error like the following one:
```

```text
- ibexa/user[v4.6.0, ..., v4.6.31] require twig/twig ^3.0 -> satisfiable by twig/twig[v3.27.0, v3.27.1, v3.28.0].
- twig/twig[v3.27.0, ..., v3.28.0] require php >=8.1.0 -> your php version (7.4.33) does not satisfy that requirement.
```

It worked before. You can check packagist.org, or an already running instance of [[= product_name =]], to see which version of this package was previously accepted.

> In this example, [`twig/twig` v3.11.3](https://packagist.org/packages/twig/twig#v3.11.3) matches the constraints `^3.0` and PHP 7.4 `>=7.2.5`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To gather more information, check package information on [Packagist](packagist.org) and try installing a specific version of the package blocking installation.

In this case, trying to install `twig/twig:3.11.3` shows explicitly that this version is blocked by a security advisory:
```

Author: ```suggestion
To gather more information, check package information on [Packagist](packagist.org) and try installing a specific version of the package blocking installation.

In this case, trying to install [`twig/twig:3.11.3`](https://packagist.org/packages/twig/twig#v3.11.3) shows explicitly that this version is blocked by a security advisory:
```

```terminal
% composer require twig/twig:3.11.3
Your requirements could not be resolved to an installable set of packages.

  Problem 1

>     - Root composer.json requires twig/twig 3.11.3 (exact version match: 3.11.3 or 3.11.3.0), found twig/twig[v3.11.3] but these were not loaded, because they are affected by security advisories ("PKSA-8zx5-v2nz-58pb").

Author: ```suggestion
    - Root composer.json requires twig/twig 3.11.3 (exact version match: 3.11.3 or 3.11.3.0),
      found twig/twig[v3.11.3] but these were not loaded, because they are affected by
      security advisories ("PKSA-8zx5-v2nz-58pb").
```

```

It's highly recommended that you not install the affected package, and instead meet the requirements of the fixed version.

> You can use the https://packagist.org/security-advisories/ resource to learn more about a security advisory, such as the affected packages and versions, a detailed description of the issue, and other possible reference IDs for the advisory: PKSA (Packagist Security Advisory), GHSA (GitHub Security Advisories), and CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the [Packagist Security Advisories database](https://packagist.org/security-advisories/) to learn more about a security advisory, such as the affected packages and versions, a detailed description of the issue, and other possible reference IDs for the advisory: PKSA (Packagist Security Advisory), GHSA (GitHub Security Advisories), and CVE (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures).
```

If you need to, upgrade PHP and migrate your custom code to be compatible with the newer PHP version, for example by using [Rector](https://github.com/rectorphp/rector).

If updating the affected package isn't possible, carefully review the security issue and assess the risk.
If you choose to implement countermeasures instead of upgrading, you can ignore the security advisory.

> We recommend using Composer's [`config.policy.advisories.ignore-id`](https://getcomposer.org/doc/06-config.md#ignore-id) setting, providing for each entry the reason why you consider it safe to ignore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use Composer's [`config.policy.advisories.ignore-id`](https://getcomposer.org/doc/06-config.md#ignore-id) setting, providing for each entry the reason why you consider it safe to ignore.
```

This way, you'll still be warned if the package is affected by a new security advisory.

```json
{
    "config": {
        "policy": {
            "advisories": {
                "ignore-id": {
                    "PKSA-fs5b-x5k4-1h39": "Description of the countermeasures you've implemented causing this one to be safe to ignore.",
                    "PKSA-8zx5-v2nz-58pb": "Description of the countermeasures you've implemented causing this one to be safe to ignore."
                }
            }
        }

>     }   

Author: ```suggestion
    }
```

---
description: Find [[= product_name_base =]] security advisories, and learn how to handle Composer package security advisories.

> ---

Author: I should have thought about this earlier:
```suggestion
month_change: true
---
```

Author: Done in 62410dbb7c24b69eba65f173fdf70460a6a0c151
